.ve-header "Lathrop's Notes" default:https%3A//edison.rutgers.edu/images/sci-fi/sci-fi-wizard03.jpeg "A Digital Essay" pct:3,23,80,20 center sticky

# Introduction

.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/D9004AEU/manifest right width=80% seq=1

McClure, proprietor of the first U.S. literary syndicate supplying fiction to newspapers.  The proposal was for a “story something after the style of [Edward] Bellamy’s ‘Looking Backward’” (the 1888 futuristic novel), with Edison supplying “ideas of the possibilities of the future” and Lathrop creating the story. Although Edison agreed to this arrangement, it was not until October that he finally produced his first set of notes for the novel. In November, Lathrop drafted the novel’s first five chapters, but it is unclear if he based them on Edison’s October notes (which he copied and returned) or a somewhat later set. In any event, Lathrop sent the notes used in writing these chapters to Edison after "marking them on the margin with a red 'X'" to indicate that he needed a fuller explanation. In January 1891, Edison supplied Lathrop with an additional fifty-six pages of notes. This latter batch marks the end of Edison’s active participation in the project, and the book was never completed. The editors conjecture that the earliest notes are those written by Edison in pen and that he subsequently wrote a second group in pencil.  It is these two sets that include Lathrop’s X and occasional notations in red pencil and Edison’s “OK” in ink. The last three sets of pages contain the kinds of elaborations that Lathrop requested in November 1890.  

.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/PA109/manifest right width=80% seq=1

At the end of 1896, Lathrop succeeded in having a version of the collaboration serialized by the newspaper and literary syndicate of Irving Bachellor as a four-part story titled “In the Deep of Time.” The title appears to borrow a phrase from Thomas Carlyle’s Past and Present (1843), in which he uses England’s twelfth-century past to critique its industrial present and future. Lathrop’s story appeared in the Sunday edition of numerous American newspapers between 13 December 1896 and 3 January 1897. It also appeared (with new illustrations and a slightly revised text) in the February and May 1897 issues of the English Illustrated Magazine. Lathrop retained other Edison notes that have not been located, two items from which he reproduced as illustrations in the American newspaper version of the story. 
