.ve-header "Edison’s Notes for George Parsons Lathrop" default:https://edison.rutgers.edu/images/exhibits/lathrop/Exhibit_header.jpg "A Digital Essay" sticky

    - [Home](/)
    - [Introduction](/introduction)
    - [Pen Notes](/1)
    - [Pencil Notes](/2)
    - [C Notes](/3)
    - [D Notes](/4)
    - [F Notes](/5)
    
# C Notes

Edison wrote these notes in pen on seven pages that he marked “1C,” “2C,” etc. The text below appears in that order. 
- Some text is obscured by other writing, and some words are crossed out and corrected above. 
- Some paragraphs are followed by a dividing mark.

 The editors have arranged the text in the way that seems to provide the greatest internal coherence, starting with the items that Edison numbered. This page sequence differs from that created earlier by an archivist. To see more information about the notes, hover over underlined words or letters in the transcript on the left.

## 1C
.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/2/PA3003/manifest seq="1" right 
Submarine telegraphs are worked at high speeds bare were being used. Odi Etheric force being used instead of Electricity, water being an insulator. The force is generated by the action of ==Light vibra of the vibrations of Light beyond the extreme end of the Ultra violet of the spectrum=={description=""vibra of the vibrations of Light…the spectrum” interlined above"} on up polished silver immersed in pure quartz Cells containing Also a carbon plate, ==and Cynogen & Tremulous Metacinnemene=={description=""& Tremulous Metacinnemene” interlined above"} the highest most of the Volitile Liquid of the petroleum series of Hydrocarbons. The interposition of water in the metallic circuit wire cuts off the wave. The receiving apparatus consists of a disk of polished platinum ==with== {description=""Electrical" interlined above"} induction sparks ==po=={description="cancelled"} flashing between a point and the disk so rapidly that it produces continuous illumination in a narrow space when no Etheric waves pass. The sparks ceases but when the surface of the disk is under stressed by the etheric waves electrical conduction can take place. Theses intermittances form dots and dashes 

## 2C
.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/2/PA3003/manifest seq="2" right 
which are recorded photographically by continuously moving bands of photographic paper impregnated with a peculiar albumenoid and ==then=={description="cancelled"} exceedingly pure Formate of Silver. Two thousand words per minute are transmitted. The ==phenomenon of=={description="cancelled"} The etheric waves unlike Electric waves do not stress the insulating material and tend to prolong signals

## 3C
.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/2/PA3003/manifest seq="3" right 
The experimental station ==of the== {description=""international" interlined above."} Darwinian Society at Para on the Amazons who have which has been established for the last four hundred years. Have at the station a great number of educated beings derived from the interbreeding and assiduous ==cultivation== {description=""and care" interlined above."} of the higher anthpoid apes. Two species being of the eleventh generation were capable of conversing in English= ==Rudiments=={description="overwritten text"} of tails= walk upright= small hair— calculated that the 80th generation would equal, in intelligence & personal beauty the Bushman Tribe of Africa. (Lathrop you can enlarge on this subject yourself)

## 4C
.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/2/PA3003/manifest seq="4" right 
In the unknown regions of the antartic pole, 1100 miles beyond the utmost limits reached by explorers there had been discovered by the Aerial Navigations a region of gigantic Volcanoes all in active operation ==pouring=={description="obscured overwritten text"} immense Volumes of Lava into down to the plains. That in the vicinity of these Lavas were large lakes of water whose waters were continuously heated by the Volcanoes so that on its shore and for leagues back the Land was arable and Covered with beautiful Veigitation and highly populated by a people ==of Mongolian=={description=""the" interlined above"} type and highly civilized  ==g=={description="cancelled"} with a Literature of their own but without Science get & state Latitude & Longitude (Lathrop this in your Line—) aerial lines run from a town on the straits Magellen, carrying mails & passengers= get name of town there in geography—

## 5C
.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/2/PA3003/manifest seq="5" right 
The formation of the Sahrian Sea by the cutting of the canal through to the Mediterrianian had caused by the pressure of the water a displacement of the Crust of the Earth towards the Timbucktoo border a chain of mountains had a been thrown up and the floor of ==the desert=={description=""once" interlined above"}  had sunk 2100 feet. The ==displace removal== =={description=""redistribution" interlined above} of such a gigantic weight from mass of water to other points had caused not only climatic changes in The Equatorial regions of africa but ha and the shifting of the temperate zone 800 miles south. The deviation of the gulf stream Towards the france rendering England free comparatively free of Rain & fog but colder but had shifted the axis of rotation of the Earth 283 miles as well as shifting of the magnetic 

## 6C
.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/2/PA3003/manifest seq="6" right 
poles and also of the equator, and produced a displacement of the lower crust of the Piedmont region of North Carolina 84 Miles Th Thus Charleston SC was ==84=={description=""34c" interlined above"} miles further out at sea
Kennelly can make some very interesting calculations based on the Saharian Sea idea get him to do it. 
    
## 7C
.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/2/PA3003/manifest seq="7" right 
A planetoid entered our atmosphere ==in at=={description=""2226" interlined above"} about same speed as that of the Earths, 46 miles dia— struck the earth 126 miles south of the Mouth of the Oronoco, and produced an indentation in the Crust of the Earth which destroyed nearly every principle building in Carracas Havanna and other cities of the west indies and a gigantic tidal waves which produced enormous destruction— The undulation was felt over the whole Earth. The heat of impact was sufficient to fuse the Mass to the Earth and it broke in many places. it took 11 years to cool sufficient to be examined— It altitude above the sea is 22 miles and gigantic streams pour down it declivities due to condensation off snow— Lathrop you can work this up about finding gold etc if it will work in—